---
layout: podcast
excerpt_separator: '<!--excerpt-above-->'
title: 'Risky Biz Soap Box 1: DevOps, appsec and squandered opportunities'
tagline: 'A conversation with Jason Schmitt, head honcho at HPE Fortify...'
author: patrick-gray
permalink: soapbox1
sponsor: '-- none --'
categories:
    - risky-business
media_url: 'http://media.risky.biz/soapbox1.mp3'
media_length: '31966629'
media_type: audio/mpeg

---
This is the first ever Risky Business Soap Box Special, produced by Risky.Biz for HP Enterprise Fortify. If you're in infosec you know who they are already -- Fortify makes software development security tools: everything from code scanners to its RASP solution Application Defender to Continuous Application Monitoring Services via Fortify on Demand, etc etc etc.

The concept behind these special shows is pretty simple -- up to once a month I'll be interviewing an executive from the infosec industry about the field they operate in. Yes, it's supposed to be promotional, but really, hearing these conversations is something a lot of listeners have told me they'd find extremely valuable. It's called the Soap Box because it's about helping men and women in positions of influence in the infosec industry actually access an audience. And they do have a lot to say.

Jason Schmitt is the vice president and general manager of the Fortify business within the HP Enterprise Security Products organization. Before HP he held product management and engineering management positions at SPI Dynamics, Barracuda Networks, Steelbox Networks, and Andersen Consulting (now Accenture).

In this special edition Jason talks about the impact the shift to DevOps is having on appsec, as well as looking at the results of a survey HPE did last year that yielded some pretty depressing results. (You can find that paper <a href='https://www.hpe.com/h20195/v2/GetPDF.aspx/4AA6-8302ENN.pdf' target='new'>here [pdf]</a>.) We'll also be referencing a talk by then Yahoo! CSO Alex Stamos (currently Facebook CSO) at Appsec USA 2015 titled "Appsec is eating security". You can watch that one on YouTube <a href='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1kZMn1RueI' target='new'>here</a>.