---
layout: podcast
excerpt_separator: '<!--excerpt-above-->'
title: 'Risky Biz Soap Box: Consolidation to hit infosec software industry'
tagline: 'Rahul Kashyap on the convergence of EDR and AV, among other things...'
author: patrick-gray
explicit: 'No'
permalink: soapbox6
sponsor: cylance
categories:
    - risky-business
media_url: 'http://media2.risky.biz/soapbox6.mp3'
media_length: '36070933'
media_type: audio/mpeg

---
Cylance, as many of you would know, is a so-called next generation AV company. They were early movers on machine learning tech, and they've been tremendously successful. They're a tech unicorn -- clocking up a valuation of over a billion dollars in a very short space of time.

Cylance was founded in 2012, and there's been a lot of movement in the endpoint security space since. There are now a whole swag of next generation endpoint security companies gobbling up the market share of the incumbent AV companies. A lot of them started off in the EDR space and are now doing anti-virus as well. It feels like we've reached a consensus point. Endpoint security software should do both EDR and AV. 

So, Cylance is building out its EDR products.

So we'll be speaking with Cylance's chief product officer, Rahul Kashyap, about convergence. Not just in terms of what they're doing, but more broadly. 

Rahul has been in the security game for a long time. He worked on developing network-based IDS products with Nsecure back in the early 2000s, before taking a job at McAfee. He served as McAfee's head of vulnerability research for four years before joining Bromium as its chief security architect. Rahul has been on Risky Business before and he's a guy who very much knows what's up.