---
layout: podcast
excerpt_separator: '<!--excerpt-above-->'
title: 'Risky Biz Soap Box: Network detection is dead! Long live network detection!'
tagline: 'ICEBRG joins Soap Box to talk about network blind spots...'
author: patrick-gray
explicit: 'No'
permalink: soapbox11
sponsor: iceberg
categories:
    - risky-business
media_url: 'http://media2.risky.biz/soapbox11.mp3'
media_length: '35546591'
media_type: audio/mpeg
show_notes:
    -  title: 'ICEBRG, Inc.'
       link: 'https://www.icebrg.io/'
       description: '' 

---
This Soap Box edition is brought to you by ICEBRG.

ICEBRG is in the business of network-based response and detection. In simple terms they drop a box on your network that strips network metadata and shunts it up to their cloud for analysis. This allows incident responders in particular to really, really speed up their investigations. We know that a lot of internet traffic is encrypted these days, and that's made some people take their eye off the network ball. The focus and buzz these days is very much on endpoint detection and response. Our guest on this edition of Soap Box, ICEBRG's VP of Strategic Partnerships Jason Rebholz, thinks we've wound up with a blind spot as a result.

It's true that a lot of network security tech fell behind the times, but there are some fresh approaches emerging these days that are pretty bloody useful. ICEBRG started off as a product to accelerate incident response, an example use case is deploying it in 15 minutes when you're starting an IR job; it gives you amazing visibility for the time invested. But, they're broadening the product a bit these days. They're not turning it in to an IDS, but they're able to give clients some very, very high quality signalling. I think this is what you get when you get a bunch of ex-govvies and incident responders together and they develop a product. Their alerts are more along the lines of "you're owned by this APT group" not so much "hmm, that's some strange ICMP traffic hitting your mail server. Maybe some router in Azerbaijan needs a reboot, <shrug>."

So the thinking is definitely fresh, and I'm increasingly seeing companies play in the network security space again. Network detection is dead! Long live network detection!

