---
layout: podcast
excerpt_separator: '<!--excerpt-above-->'
title: 'Risky Biz Soap Box: Cylance: Driving machine learning model development with threat research '
tagline: 'Cylance director of threat research Chris Sestito joins Soap Box...'
author: patrick-gray
explicit: 'No'
permalink: soapbox14
sponsor: cylance
categories:
    - risky-business
media_url: 'http://media2.risky.biz/soapbox14.mp3'
media_length: '34338559'
media_type: audio/mpeg

---
There's no weekly show this week, I'm on a beach somewhere tropical right now and I prepared this one so we'd have something to run while I'm away. The Soap Box is one of our wholly sponsored podcasts here at Risky Biz HQ -- vendors pay to come on to talk about what's on their mind.

And this week we've got Cylance's very own Chris Sestito joining us. He heads threat research for Cylance, the AV company.

Cylance is a relatively new company -- they've been around about six years now -- and regular listeners would have heard me credit them for almost singlehandedly shaking up the AV industry.

They built a machine learning model for detecting malware that was effective enough to actually challenge the incumbents, who until then, had a stranglehold on the market. Cylance's fortunes rose further when it played an instrumental part in detecting and cleaning up malware used against the US office of personnel management, or OPM.

That was a big moment, because from there it seemed like all of a sudden EVERYONE was a machine learning company. I'm sure a lot of people listening to this podcast are so sick to death of hearing pitches from vendors about machine learning.

But the thing is, Cylance was built on machine learning and they are still 100%, 24-carat true believers. Chris Sestito joined me to talk about driving machine learning model development with threat research, dodgy machine learning marketing and more. 