---
layout: podcast
excerpt_separator: '<!--excerpt-above-->'
title: 'Risky Biz Soap Box: Kill your own meat with EclecticIQ'
tagline: 'When the usual threat intelligence feeds aren''t enough... '
author: patrick-gray
explicit: 'No'
permalink: soapbox13
sponsor: '-- none --'
categories:
    - risky-business
media_url: 'http://media2.risky.biz/soapbox13.mp3'
media_length: '27938346'
media_type: audio/mpeg
show_notes:
    -  title: 'Cyber Threat Intelligence analysis | EclecticIQ'
       link: 'https://www.eclecticiq.com/'
       description: '' 

---
Soap Box is not our regular weekly show, it's the monthly podcast here at Risky Biz HQ where vendors pay to come on to the show to talk about what it is they actually do. 

Before EclecticIQ sponsored this edition, to be honest, I didn't really know much about them. All I knew is that their positioning was very much around "threat intelligence," which, as regular listeners would know, are two words that are usually followed by "derpa derpa" on the regular Risky Business podcast.

BUT! Here's the thing. EclecticIQ don't sell a "blinky light" box that receives a creaky feed of 12-month-old IOCs. They sell their solution to either massive organisations or very high risk organisations. They could be national cyber security centres, entire defence departments, very, very big enterprises; basically anyone that has an intelligence team and multiple constituent departments or agencies. They also play in ultra high risk sectors like defence contracting. 

The EclecticIQ platform isn't for small organisations. It really is for orgs that have dedicated, externally-focussed intelligence teams. Their play isn't "we feed you threat intelligence," it's use our tooling to go get your own threat intelligence, develop a strategy for dealing with the resulting product then distributing the strategy that flows from that process out to the relevant people in your organisation. I like to think of this approach as "killing your own meat". That's what EclecticIQ is all about. They give you the shotgun and a map, the last known locations of the deer, a cool room and a bunch of cleavers. Delicious. Apologies to any vegetarians listening for that metaphor.

Joep Gommers is our guest. He is the founder and CEO of EclecticIQ. Prior to founding EclecticIQ, Joep served as Head of Global Collection and Global Intelligence Operations at iSIGHT Partners, which was, of course, acquired by FireEye. Joep joined me to talk about what it is that EclecticIQ actually does and the resulting conversation, I hope, will be interesting to anyone who wants to understand how Threat intelligence is developed and disseminated at scale.

There's a link to EclecticIQ's website below, and you can follow Joep Gommers on Twitter <a href='https://twitter.com/joepgommers'>here</a>.
